Project Overview

The Car Sales Analysis Project focuses on analyzing sales data of various car models to identify patterns, performance metrics, and customer preferences.
Using Power BI, the dashboard helps visualize and interpret sales performance across brands, regions, and time periods — supporting better strategic and marketing decisions.

This analysis helps stakeholders understand:

Which car models and brands perform best

How pricing, region, and car segment impact sales

When demand peaks and which categories drive revenue

🎯 Objectives

To analyze total sales, profit, and quantity sold across brands and models.

To identify top-performing models and underperforming categories.

To study regional and seasonal trends in car sales.

To evaluate customer demand by segment (SUV, Sedan, Hatchback, Electric, etc.).

To provide actionable insights for inventory, marketing, and pricing strategies.

📊 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
KPI	Description
Total Sales	Total revenue generated from all car models
Total Units Sold	Number of vehicles sold
Average Selling Price (ASP)	Revenue divided by total units sold
Profit Margin (%)	Profit as a percentage of revenue
Top Brand	Brand with the highest total sales
Top Model	Highest-selling car model
Sales by Segment	Comparison of sales across SUV, Sedan, Hatchback, EV
Sales by Region	Regional distribution of car sales
🧠 Key Insights

SUVs and Electric Vehicles (EVs) show the strongest growth in total sales and revenue share.

Sedans maintain consistent sales, while Hatchbacks show a gradual decline in demand.

Premium models have higher margins despite lower sales volume.

Urban regions have the highest sales concentration, especially for EVs and luxury cars.

Festive seasons and year-end periods see sharp spikes in sales due to discounts and promotions.

Customer preference leans towards mid-range models offering both performance and fuel efficiency.

⚙️ Tools & Techniques Used

Power BI – for dashboard design and KPI visualization

Power Query – for data cleaning and transformation

DAX (Data Analysis Expressions) – for custom measures and KPIs

Excel / CSV Data – as the raw data source

(Optional) SQL or Python – for data preprocessing

🧮 Sample DAX Measures
Total Sales = SUM(CarSales[Revenue])

Total Units Sold = COUNT(CarSales[Car_ID])

Average Selling Price = [Total Sales] / [Total Units Sold]

Profit Margin % = DIVIDE(SUM(CarSales[Profit]), SUM(CarSales[Revenue]), 0) * 100

Top Brand Sales = CALCULATE(SUM(CarSales[Revenue]), ALLEXCEPT(CarSales, CarSales[Brand]))

📈 Dashboard Highlights

Interactive Filters: Brand, Model, Year, and Region

Visualizations: KPI cards, bar and line charts, donut charts, and heatmaps

Trend Analysis: Month-over-month sales growth, profit tracking, and seasonal variations

Regional Breakdown: Sales performance by city, state, and dealership

Segment Comparison: SUV vs Sedan vs Hatchback vs EV

📊 Findings Summary
Category	Observation	Recommendation
SUV Segment	Strong upward sales trend	Increase stock and marketing investment
Electric Vehicles (EVs)	Rapidly growing demand	Focus on EV infrastructure and promotion
Hatchbacks	Declining interest	Review pricing and reposition in market
Regional Sales	Metro cities dominate	Expand reach in Tier-2 cities
Premium Models	High profit, low volume	Target high-income segments with promotions
🚀 Business Impact

Improved decision-making through data-backed sales insights.

Enhanced inventory planning by forecasting demand by model and region.

Better understanding of consumer preferences and emerging trends.

Optimization of marketing campaigns based on seasonal patterns.

🔮 Future Enhancements

Add predictive forecasting using machine learning to project future sales.

Include customer feedback sentiment for deeper satisfaction analysis.

Connect to live dealership data for real-time sales tracking.

Integrate cost, discount, and financing data for full profit analysis.
